[Music]
so you have over the course of the last
six eight years a series of Supreme
Court decisions it systematically
dismantled protections against money in
politics and you write in this great
piece you did for media about the way in
which you a constitutional law professor
you clerk the Supreme Court actually
misunderstood the effect that you
thought this would be corporations
rushing in but actually it's politicians
who need to buy insurance it's not about
the money that gets spent but about the
money that could be spent right this was
a point that Evan Bayh articulated in an
exchange that I saw him have with
Senator Specter where he was describing
the dynamic that super PACs create he
said the the thing that I'm most fearful
of that any incumbent is most fearful of
is that 30 days before the election some
super PAC will come in and drop a
million dollars against you so you need
to prepare for that and the way you
prepare for that is these weren't his
words but this is the way to understand
it you buy super PAC insurance and what
that means is you affiliate with
somebody on your side who would be
willing to drop a million dollars to
defend you against the million dollars
that was spent against you um well how
do you buy insurance like this well like
any insurance policy you gotta pay the
premium in advance and how do you pay
the premium in advance here you
basically signal that you're the kind of
person that this super PAC would want to
support so they might have standards
they might say we can only support
people who get a 90 percent voting a
score on our voting card and so now you
have a target to aim for ninety percent
and this becomes the economics of a
protection racket this is the sort of
thing that Tony Soprano would have
understood because now you have people
behaving in a way that assures the kind
of protection they need and not a single
dollar has changed hands the super PAC
has achieved it's exactly its objective
and that dynamic I think nobody was
expecting nobody was planning or
thinking about when they unleashed the
series of decisions that created the
super PAC
I think the way that
most of us understand or conceptualize
this kind of interaction it's that the
rich guy or the lobbyist or the head of
super PAC goes to the politician and
says that you're gonna vote my way or
I'm gonna drop a million dollars on you
and for your opponent I spoke a while
back to some folks who are involved in
passing the mccain-feingold one thing
they said which is interesting was it
they had had a lot of support from rich
folks because rich guys were tired of
being hit up by politicians and the
politicians often do it almost in
Reverse that well if they don't get the
donation who knows how they'll vote and
that dynamic is shot through that system
and my favorite example is the doc fix
right so the Medicare Act has this
provision where they're supposed to
reduce the reimbursement rate for
doctors every year and every year the
question comes up whether they will
reduce the reimbursement rate and every
year they vote not to reimburse the
reimbursement rate but before they vote
that way of course there are lots of
efforts out to doctors saying we need to
build the support to stop the the doc
fix right so this becomes a money
printing machine
for congressmen because of the threat of
how it's going to affect the interests
of doctors same thing with you know Al
Gore tell the story in my book
Al Gore when he was vice president had
this idea for deregulating a significant
chunk of the telecommunications
interesting his chief lobbyist takes it
to Capitol Hill and as he reports it
back to me response from Capitol Hill
was hell no if we deregulate these guys
how are we gonna raise money from them
right so the point is you have your
hands in as much as you possibly can so
you have as many chains as you can
possibly pull when you need to raise
money from people to fund your elections
and this is why I say you know to people
on the right all the time you know you
can say that the solution to all of this
is smaller government but how are you
gonna get smaller government when the
way we fund elections gives congressmen
an interest in larger more invasive
government you've got a thumb on the
scale against your objective of
shrinking the side of government because
if you shrink the size of government
they can't fund their campaigns anymore
you're running something called the
Mayday PAC and you raised a million
dollars that'll be matched in
a-and you're trying to raise five
million dollars to be matched with
another five million dollars in June and
if you do that you'll have 12 million
dollars to spend on the 2014 election
kind of as a first step how can you
fight money in politics by raising an
enormous amount of money in order to win
elections well the only way we solve the
problem of money in politics is changing
the rules to changing the rules of how
campaigns get funded now to change the
rules we need a Congress to get a
Congress we have to have a super PAC
capable of exerting enough coordinating
influence to achieve that and so that's
the strategy because in my view the
critical problem is not the
corporation's can speak or that money is
speech or that there's lots of money
spent on negative ads the critical
problem is we've out sourced the funding
of campaigns to the tiniest fraction of
the 1% and we can change that by
electing a Congress that's committed to
a system of small dollar funded
elections whether it's the Republican
version of that which would be vouchers
or the Democratic version of that which
would be matching funds either way you
change the rules and you can radically
change the way campaigns get funded
let's just back up on the mechanics here
for a second
so I favor um what a lot of
conservatives talk about as the solution
even though that's not my politics but I
favor a voucher system and about your
system um basically says every voter
gets a voucher in my book I talked about
every voter getting a $50 voucher and
they can give that voucher to any
candidate who agrees to fund his or her
campaign with vouchers and maybe small
contributions on top what are the
unintended consequences you worry about
in a system like that well you know
there's a lot of right thinking
reformers people who you know whose
views I respect because they've been in
this fight forever people like Fred
Wertheimer um who I think are genuinely
concerned that if we shift too much
power to people to kind of creates these
coalition's and you know groups through
this kind of small dollar funding
they'll be driving for their own kind of
special interests
legislation that will get more special
interest legislation than we have right
now it'll just be driven by coalitions
of voters AARP or NRA instead of by K
Street lobbyists you donate to the NRA
slate ya would be the word yes you
allocate your voucher the way it and RA
says you should allocate it or the AARP
or a planned parent or whatever you know
and so this is aggregating at a much
lower level it's bundling at the $50
level and you might think well the
policies that come out of that are just
not good policies and in my response to
that is right democracy isn't a
guarantee of good government and there's
gonna be many things that a democracy
does that I disagree with you know of
course I'm an elite member of a Harvard
Faculty of course I'm gonna disagree
with it but I don't see the alternative
to empowering a responsive democracy at
least in the current political context
we're not gonna pick 12 law professors
to decide how we should make policy in
the United States we're not gonna turn
more over to the courts people don't
trust the courts so in some sense we've
got to revitalize democracy and then
engage in the hard fight to convince
people at the Democratic level what they
ought to do when I read the political
science on this stuff I think that you I
think that what you end up having are
highly polarized highly ideological
highly involved people and then folks
who and this isn't many ways the most
salient polarization in American
politics who just don't care all that
much and there's really interesting
research summit by a guy named David
Brookman over at Berkeley that folks who
just don't care that much if I'm
recalling this paper write it so much
that they are moderate although they
often appear so in polls it's that when
you pull them they have extreme views in
all kinds of different directions
they're not coherent ly organized by an
ideology the way a hardcore conservative
is or where hardcore liberal is they
have used it or somewhat vaguer and you
can I think kind of imagine that
following any sort of way
it might follow that what they want is a
more inspiring politics of politics they
can trust and they might want a politics
where people work together
or it might turn out that when you have
to cut through to people who are
listening with a volume to down solo do
you actually have to scream much louder
I don't know this is all very
speculative but I think it's an
interesting question that would have to
be yeah this actually is completely code
consistent with great work that's been
done to demonstrate the polarized
Americans are the politically active
Americans and the non politically active
are not polarized maybe it's because
they're mixed in this way but maybe
they're just more moderate in their view
um but then again if you think about the
business model of funding a campaign
when you do it at $50.00 pops you create
an incredible incentive for politicians
to figure out how to get those people
engaged now in that system
you know $50 a voter is about seven
billion dollars which is about three
times the total amount raised and spent
in the last congressional election so
it's real money but the point is to
raise that money you're not talking to
the tiniest fraction of the 1% you're
talking to the wide range of potential
people who could be supporting you so it
spreads out the funder influence and in
doing that it removes but I think is the
core corrosive dynamic of the current
way in which we fund elections which is
to create this incredible incentive to
bend government and policy to make this
tiny tiny number of people happy so that
they fund your campaigns
[Music]
you